Our country's first Corona patient, going through plasma treatment, has reached home completely cured.
A 49 year old male from Delhi was infected with Corona on April 4th.Symptoms appeared in his lungs at moderate magnitudes. He was admitted to the ICU on April 8th, unable to breathe independently.When he lost his ability to breathe he was put on a ventilator which helped to hold his life but did not help in the improvement of his condition. Then the family prayed for doctors to give him plasma treatment. A man was brought in who was ready to donate the plasma needed for the Plasma treatment. This man had been infected with corona virus and was in full recovery.

To make sure he was completely healed he underwent blood test twice, the result of which declared him free of infections, so the doctor collected 400 ml of Plasma from his blood according to the necessary precautions and procedures.
200ml plasma was given to the patient, who was fighting between life and death, on the ventilator (the remaining 200ml of plasma can be donated to another corona patient).It happened on April 14th. By 4 days after plasma treatment there was considerable improvement in the patient. Ventilator aid was stopped but he continued to consume excess oxygen and by 24 hours he began to self feed.He was sent to ward from ICU just 24 hours after his arrival, when his blood test was done, the news emerged that the man was completely cured.

Max Hospital in Saket area of Delhi was named as the first Centre for successful treatment of Plasma treatment which was attended by Doctors Ominder Singh, Devane Junage, Sangeeta Pathak and a number of paramedics. He was taken home on April 26, according to Government guidance,he is now living in his own home under quarantine. We may be curious just by hearing about this miracle that plasma treatment has been able to achieve.

PLASMA:-
The human blood has two parts:-particle part and fluid part. The particle part has red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets. They make up to 45% of the blood. The fluid part of the blood is also called plasma. This makes up to 55% of the blood and 95% of this plasma is water. The remaining 5% mainly contains chemicals. They include Globulin, Albumin, Fibrinogen, etc.,. Apart from these glucose, hormones, chemicals having the ability to form clots, carbon dioxide, oxygen, etc., are also present. Sodium, magnesium, bicarbonate, chloride, etc., are the few electrolytes that are also present in the plasma.

Among the plasma proteins Globulin is an important protein. Immunoglobulins are a group of chemicals that are like the aimed missiles of the military force (guided missiles). These amazing proteins kill the foreign particles or the pathogens that enter our body. Corona warriors of plasma treatment.

MILITARY FORCE:-
There is a strong military force to defend India. Similarly, there is military of human body which protects the health of every human being.The white blood cells that make up the human blood cell are the main warrior cells of this military force! This defence system in the human body is called the immune system.

PASSPORT:-
It is good to know the role of the military in the human body. Each Indian has a passport detailing his identity and acquaintance similarly, each cell in the human body (ex: red blood cells) has a chemical passport that identifies that cell and this chemical passport is the HLA system (Human Leukocyte Antigen System). In our body’s blood there are special cells that belong to the white blood cells that are constantly patrolling in all fluids and inflammations, these are named big eaters or Macrophages.

Macrophages are the cells that are in constant circulation traveling slowly in all the fluids including our blood and inflammations in our body. They inspect every cell and every chemical that comes before them, checking whether or not there is an HLA passport on the surface of these cells. It compares the passport of the owner (body) with the passport of the newcomer cell. If the HLA on the new cell under inspection matches the HLA present on other cells in the body, the macrophage declares it as a self cell and allows it to go ahead. But if the cell is pathogenic such as bacteria, virus or fungi, they do not have the human body’s HLA passport on them. Then the big eater breaks it down with its hunger pods (pseudopodia). To prevent the new cell from escaping the macrophage sends a warning saying that there is an intruder and immediately break the chemical balls i.e., new chemicals are produced. These new chemicals draw the attention of special white particles called T-particles (T-cells). T-cells are like the military Generals of our body.

SHOOT AT SIGHT:-
The T-cells first checks the passport of the macrophage that has apprehended the intruder cell. This is to make sure that the macrophage is a true police. T-cell then conducts a detailed study of the intruder cell. It studies the characteristics of the intruder cell and also collects information about the hazards that the intruder cell can cause. T-cell then commands the macrophage to dissolve the intruder cell. Macrophage also sends the news of the dissolution to the other macrophages in the body. Then the entire military force becomes vigilant, commanding the shooters to shoot at sight.

IMMUNOGLOBULINS:-
The T-cells that collect the complete information of the intruder passes it directly to the B-particles(B-cells), another specialized white blood cell. These B-cells are just like the factories that manufacture guns and ammunition. Based on the information provided by the T-cells, the B-cells produce an antibody that has the ability to kill the intruder cell. These antibodies for humans are like guided missiles. Immunoglobulin is the chemical name given to antibodies. In the modern battles, guided missiles can be fired at air crafts, these missiles contain infrared ray sensors that detect the infrared rays. Being guided by the heat emerging from the enemy’s air craft, the missiles are able to chase it down. When Kakasura, the demon in Ramayana, tortures Sita, Rama takes a blade of grass and spells it with Brahmastra mantra, which chases Kakasura. 
Kakasura shakes the 3 worlds to get rid of the blade, but it does not stop chasing him. Similarly, the antibodies, just like the Brahmastra, it has the ability to search and exterminate the pathogen in any part of the body. Immunoglobulin is the generic name given to several forms of antibodies (IgG, IgE, IgM, IgA, IgD)

Plasma Therapy:-
When a person gets infected with corona virus, the macrophage cells identifies the virus as an intruder and conveys the information to T-cells, which in turn coveys the complete information of the virus to the B-cells. On receiving the information from the T-cells, they produce immunoglobulin proteins which have the ability to eliminate the virus. Being present in the plasma of the blood, these immunoglobulins are able to reach any part of the body and eliminates the virus. 

Scientists after studying this phenomena deeply they have devised the plasma therapy. This therapy is a procedure which involves collecting the plasma from a person who had been infected by corona virus but is now cured (donor) and delivering this plasma to a corona infected person (recipient) which helps the recipient to produce more immunoglobulin on his own. These immunoglobulins find and eliminate the corona virus in the infected persons body giving him a better chance for survival and to lead a normal life.

CHINESE:-
The plasma therapy was 1st tried out in China. Later countries like USA and England have also started experimentation of this therapy. India also has received permission from ICMR, and accordingly Delhi, Kerala, Gujarat, Punjab and now Karnataka have also started experimenting the plasma therapy.

Even though the principle of plasma therapy looks simple, the experimental is a tedious process. To initiate this process we require a healthy youth who had been infected with the virus but is now cured as he has the ability to produce immunoglobulins efficiently. The plasma of this person has to be collected and processed so that it can be given to the recipient who is in need of it. 

The doctors need to take all the precautions about the side-effects of plasma therapy. Sufficient amount of plasma should be administered to the recipient so that it remains active for a week or even a month so that the virus can be eliminated, this type of plasma treatment is called passive immunization.

Drawbacks:-
Even though the process of plasma therapy looks simple it may not be considered completely safe, it has its own drawbacks.

I)Transmission of infections:-All the problems faced during blood transfusion are also seen during plasma transfusion. Diseases such as Hepatitis-A, Hepatitis-B, HIV,etc,. may also get transmitted along with the plasma. It is not a good practice to transmit a new disease trying to cure one.
II)Failure of plasma therapy :- Due to some mutations in the body, corona virus build a resistance to the immunoglobulin administered to the recipient. Hence when the plasma is transmitted to a virus infected person it fails to fight the virus. As a consequence the recipient ‘s health becomes fatal.

III)Recipient :- The health of the recipient is also important. This is because the immunoglobulin donated does not stay permanently. Eventually the recipients military forces have to start making the immunoglobulin themselves. This is necessary to prevent recurrence of the virus.

Plasma Therapy:- Plasma therapy was 1st developed by Emil Von Behring during the 1890s . When the spanish flu (a pandemic) was hit in 1920 and affected about 50 crore people plasma therapy was used to control this pandemic.
Apart from this measles , rabbis, HIV, polio have also been cured using this therapy. WHO used plasma therapy to cure diseases such as SARS, Ebola, Messrs and H1N1.

There are many questions which remain unanswered:-
Who qualifies for the plasma therapy?
At what stage is the plasma administered?  
What dosage and how much quantity to be given?
These questions can be answered only through experiments and they need answered before having human trials.


 
